# CS-305-Secure-Software
#### Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a financial consulting company that works with cusmtomers around the global by developing individualized financial plans for them. Artemis Financial was looking to modernize their current operations, specifically, they wish to add a file verification step to their current web application to ensure that communications through the system are secure and their customers data remains that way. 

#### What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
When approaching this project and identifing the best solutions and security vulnerabilities associated with the system, I beleive that I was able to identify the best solution for them based on their needs. The encryption ciphers I identified solve the clients needs to ensure that data is encrypted and communication remains secure. The need for secure coding is expansive, but in this instance, it would be ensuring that their companies and clients data remains secure and out of the reach of those that would try to take it. By ensuring that secure coding is implemented, the company's reputation, sucess and lively hood remains intact. The cost of a securty breach could mean the loss of money, clients, and even the company itself if severe enough.

#### What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
This is my first real experience working with vulnerability assessments, and I found it challenging to digest everything involved within it. From identifing dependency issues, possible data leaks in their systems, and other vulnerabilities felt rather overwhelming at first, but by researching and studying best practices, study material, and speaking with peers, I was able to develop a strong foundation within this work.

#### How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
To increase layers of security within this system, I employed a checksum varification utilizing the SHA-256 algorithm to create a hash that could be utilized to validate the data's integratey. I also implemented the use of HTTPS through SSL to ensure that security was inplace to ensure secure communication between the client/server. In the future, I will utilize dependency checks, static testing techniques, and functional testing techniques to assess vulnerabilities and develop a mitigation plan to address security and vulnerability issues.

#### How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
To ensure that the code and software application were functional and secure, I utilized a dependency check system to create a dependency report to ensure no new vulnerabilities had been introduced into the system. Also, by completing functional testing, I was able to validate that the system was functioning as intended and that the checksum was functional. 

#### What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
I utilized many tools and resources through the effort, to enclude OWASP Dependency-Check Maven, NIST site, and standard best practices when coding securely. I will look to utilize each of these in my future assignments as they will ensure that the work I'm completing is secure, accurate, and free of potiential vulnerabilities.

#### Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
When speaking with future employers, I believe that I would show my vulnerability assessment report and practices for secure software report. I believe that they both show my ability to develop easliy digestable documents that showcase my ability to utilize tools and methods to identify and act upon security and vulnerability issues identified in a system. The ability to do this is an important skill that could be utilized in any software development space.
